WIP: mid cycle 1.29 blog [placeholder] (#43439)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-11-02-mid-cycle-1.29.md

---
layout: blog
title: 'Kubernetes Removals, Deprecations, and Major Changes in Kubernetes 1.29'

> date: 2023-11-09

Reviewer: On the SIG Docs call, the proposed publication date is Nov 2. 
```suggestion
date: 2023-11-02
```

Reviewer 2: At the 11-01-23 Release Team meeting, we discussed moving the publication date until the week after Kubecon.

Author: @kcmartin @a-mccarthy changed to Nov 16th after Kubecon

slug: kubernetes-1-29-release-announcement
---

> **Authors:** Carol Valencia, Kristin Martin, Abigail McCarthy, James Quigley, Hosam Kamel

Reviewer 3: Typically we add company attributions, but that's not officially required.

Reviewer 2: We actually removed the affiliations, per a comment by Priyanka on the HackMD draft.

Reviewer 3: OK, but: why? It would be good to know why we're not listing affiliations.

Reviewer 4: So looking at the comments in the hackmd, I think that Priyanka comment referred to the original draft of the blog that listed "the release team" as the authors instead of the specific members of the comms team. I also looked back at the past 4 mid-cycle blogs, half include company affiliations and half do not. 

I'm fine defaulting to the usual way blogs do this.

> # Kubernetes Removals, Deprecations, and Major Changes in Kubernetes 1.29

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

As with every release, Kubernetes v1.29 will introduce some feature deprecations and removals. Our continued ability to produce high-quality releases is a testament to our robust development cycle and healthy community. The following list are of some of the deprecations and removals coming in the Kubernetes 1.29 release. 

> ## The Kubernetes API Removal and Deprecation process

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## The Kubernetes API removal and deprecation process
```

* Generally available (GA) or stable API versions may be marked as deprecated, but must not be removed within a major version of Kubernetes.
* Beta or pre-release API versions must be supported for 3 releases after deprecation.
* Alpha or experimental API versions may be removed in any release without prior deprecation notice.

Whether an API is removed as a result of a feature graduating from beta to stable or because that API simply did not succeed, all removals comply with this deprecation policy. Whenever an API is removed, migration options are communicated in the documentation.

## A note about the k8s.gcr.io redirect to registry.k8s.io

> To host its container images, the Kubernetes project uses a community-owned image registry called registry.k8s.io. Starting last March traffic to the old k8s.gcr.io registry began being redirected to registry.k8s.io. The deprecated k8s.gcr.io registry will eventually be phased out. For more details on this change or to see if you are impacted, please read [k8s.gcr.io Redirect to registry.k8s.io - What You Need to Know](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/03/10/image-registry-redirect/). 

Reviewer 3: - Use site relative links
- Please incorporate the feedback from https://hackmd.io/@krol/middlecycle-129

Reviewer 3: We should mention the package repository changes too.

Reviewer 4: copying over the feedback in the hackmd file. 

>We have two slightly related changes: one is this redirect and the other is https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/
Neither is linked to v1.29 but both are worth calling out.

Author: @sftim  can you reviewed? we arrange this in this [commit]. cc: @a-mccarthy (https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439/commits/166e879eb6383a286882ad3467e76c72c75dfa44)

 

## Deprecations and Removals for Kubernetes v1.29

> ### Removing In-Tree Cloud Providers [KEP-2395](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2395)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Removal of in-tree integrations with cloud providers
```

> The [feature gates](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `DisableCloudProviders` and `DisableKubeletCloudCredentialProviders` are now set to `true` by default. This change will require that users who are currently using in-tree cloud providers (Azure, GCE, or vSphere) to enable external cloud controller managers, or to set the feature gates to `false`. Enabling external cloud controller managers requires setting the command line flag `--cloud-provider=external` on the kubelet, kube-apiserver, and kube-controller-manager in addition to running the cloud controller manager.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [feature gates](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) `DisableCloudProviders` and `DisableKubeletCloudCredentialProviders` will both be set to `true` by default for Kubernetes v1.20. This change will require that users who are currently using in-tree cloud provider integrations (Azure, GCE, or vSphere) enable external cloud controller managers, or opt in to the legacy integration by set the associated feature gates to `false`.

Enabling external cloud controller managers running a cloud controller manager. setting the command line argument `--cloud-provider=external` for the kubelet (on every relevant node), and across the control plane (kube-apiserver and kube-controller-manager).
```

> For more information about how to enable and run external cloud controller managers, please see the Kubernetes documentation [Cloud Controller Manager Administration](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/running-cloud-controller/) and [Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/controller-manager-leader-migration/).
> 
> For general information about cloud controller managers, please see the Kubernetes document
> [Cloud Controller Manager](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information about how to enable and run external cloud controller managers, read [Cloud Controller Manager Administration](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/running-cloud-controller/) and [Migrate Replicated Control Plane To Use Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/controller-manager-leader-migration/).

For general information about cloud controller managers, please see
[Cloud Controller Manager](/docs/concepts/architecture/cloud-controller/) in the Kubernetes documentation.
```

### Removal of `v1beta2` flow control API group

> The flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2 API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will no longer be [served in v1.29](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The _flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2_ API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will [no longer be served](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) in Kubernetes v1.29.
```

To prepare for this, you can edit your existing manifests and rewrite client software to use the `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` API version, available since v1.26. All existing persisted objects are accessible via the new API. Notable changes in `flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta3` include

> the PriorityLevelConfiguration spec.limited.assuredConcurrencyShares field is renamed to spec.limited.nominalConcurrencyShares.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that the PriorityLevelConfiguration `spec.limited.assuredConcurrencyShares` field was renamed to `spec.limited.nominalConcurrencyShares`.
```

> ### Deprecation of `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field of v1.Node

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Deprecation of `status.nodeInfo.kubeProxyVersion` field for Node
```
I think the v1 can go without saying as it's the only API version we support.

The `.status.kubeProxyVersion` field for Node objects will be [marked as deprecated](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/4004) in v1.29 in preparation for its removal in a future release. This field is not accurate and is set by kubelet, which does not actually know the kube-proxy version, or even if kube-proxy is running.

### Deprecation of the `SkipReadOnlyValidationGCE` feature gate

> The `SkipReadOnlyValidationGCE` feature gate will be [deprecated](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/pull/121083). Previous versions of Kubernetes on Google Cloud required that workloads (for example Deployments, DaemonSets, etc.) which used PersistentDisk volumes were using them in read-only mode. This validation provided very little value at a relatively high host implementation cost, and will no longer be validated. If this is a problem for a specific use-case, you'll be able to the set SkipReadOnlyValidationGCE gate to false so as to re-enable the validation, and then we hope you would file a Kubernetes bug with details. 

Reviewer 3: This needs tech review - it doesn't make sense to me as it stands. I think the change is to _graduate_ the feature gate.

Reviewer 5: This doesn't make sense to include, IMO.  It's suuuuuuuch a tiny thing. It's not even that something which used to work will now fail. Things that used to fail will still fail, just but differently.

Reviewer 4: ok, we can remove it. Thanks for the feedback @thockin!

Author: Thanks for the review! It was resolved in this [commit](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43439/commits/e814c6c7508cc4c2e5990c421d7b6cf252b6adb8)

    
## Major Changes for Kubernetes v1.29

### Native sidecar containers promoted to beta

> Introduced in alpha in Kubernetes v1.28, native sidecare containers will be [beta](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/753) in Kubernetes v1.29. In addition to fixing known issues, improvements include implementing proper termination ordering and allowing sidecar containers to restart during the shutdown of the Pod.

Reviewer 3: Please incorporate the feedback from https://hackmd.io/@krol/middlecycle-129

Reviewer 4: @sftim just confirming that the feedback was to remove the Major Changes for Kubernetes v1.29 section? The comments in the hackmd got a bit too unwieldy for me, I want to make sure i'm looking at the right suggestion 😄

Reviewer 3: Either remove it, or find some major changes that are things people upgrading need to watch out for (_not_ new features).

## Looking Ahead

The official list of [API removals](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29) planned for Kubernetes v1.29 includes:

> * The flowcontrol.apiserver.k8s.io/v1beta2 API version of FlowSchema and PriorityLevelConfiguration will no longer be served in v1.29.

Reviewer 3: Please incorporate the feedback from https://hackmd.io/@krol/middlecycle-129

This should cover releases further in the future (1.30 onwards)

Reviewer 4: Hi @sftim, adding my question from the hackmd file about this. This page, https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-guide/#v1-29, doesn't list any more deprecations past 1.29. Can you recommend a place where we can find the future planned deprecations?

Reviewer 3: Nice.

You could write “At the time of writing, there are no deprecated APIs with removals planned for releases past v1.29”. But basically this is resolved.

(this is because [beta APIs are off by default](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2020/08/21/moving-forward-from-beta/))

### Want to know more?

Deprecations are announced in the Kubernetes release notes. You can see the announcements of pending deprecations in the release notes for:

* [Kubernetes v1.25](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.25.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.26](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.26.md#deprecation)
* [Kubernetes v1.27](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.27.md#deprecation)

> * [Kubernetes v1.28](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.28.md#deprecation)

Reviewer 3: Please incorporate the feedback from https://hackmd.io/@krol/middlecycle-129

Is this the right list?

Reviewer 4: @sftim This is the same section that we have used in previous mid-cycle blogs, linking to the change logs for a list of deprecations.

Reviewer 3: It'd be nice to do this properly (ie, tell people where to find the announced deprecations); what we're doing here is giving a partial list of places to look.

However, the shortcoming here shouldn't block a merge.

We will formally announce the deprecations that come with [Kubernetes v1.29](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/master/CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.29.md#deprecation) as part of the CHANGELOG for that release.

> For information on the deprecation and removal process, check out the official Kubernetes [deprecation policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/#deprecating-parts-of-the-api) document.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For information on the deprecation and removal process, check out the official Kubernetes [deprecation policy](/docs/reference/using-api/deprecation-policy/#deprecating-parts-of-the-api) document.
```
